---
title: Acknowledgements
layout: default
---

## Acknowledgments

To facilitate large-scale climate science carried out in the U.S. Department of
Energy (DOE), as well as the need for data-intensive distributed computing, the
Office of Biological and Environmental Research (BER) within the Office of
Science supports the research and development of the Community Data Analysis Tools (CDAT).

The goals of CDAT are ambitious, with emphasis placed on the building of an
open framework that enables communication and interoperability between
disparate analysis and visualization packages through appropriate application
programming interfaces (APIs). Building such a system has brought a diverse
community of climate scientists, computer scientists and mathematicians
together to enable commonly used software tools such as CDAT, VisTrails,
ParaView, VisIt, DV3D, and R under one charge.

Institutional acknowledgement for the CDAT participation goes out to
Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory,
Los Alamos National Laboratory, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Kitware Inc.,
Polytechnic Institute of New York University, Scientific Computing and Imaging
Institute, and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.

The CDAT executive committee consists of Dean N. Williams, LLNL; Dave Bader,
LLNL; Phil Jones, LANL; Galen Shipman, ORNL; Claudio Silva, NYU Poly; Berk
Geveci, Kitware Inc.; Wes Bethel, LBNL; and Jerry Potter, NASA.

The CDAT team acknowledges and works closely with other U.S. agencies and
institutions (e.g., NOAA, NNSA, NSF, DOD, and others) to help define and
implement new technologies into the open framework. These relationships and
interactions offer a unique opportunity to leverage major programs across
agencies in the service of DOE science priorities.
